Hello my loves. Welcome back to my
channel or welcome to my channel if you
are new here. Hi hello. My name is Loey
and I don't really talk about this as
much on YouTube, but I have gotten
really really involved in the horror
film space in the past 2 years I'd say
but primarily in the last 6 months. I
posted a members video recently kind of
about that like my quote unquote real
job which is very exciting and I haven't
necessarily known how to bring that side
of things that I love with horror movies
and all of that to YouTube and recently
I had the pleasure of seeing A24's film
Undertone a little bit early. I went
into this with very high expectations
and left with it being like pretty much
my movie of the year so far. It is so
unbelievably good and if you like the
content that I make, you'll probably
understand why. It's deeply rooted in
internet culture, ARGs, like the viral
scary story of it all. It follows these
two podcast hosts uh named Eevee and
Justin. They have this podcast together.
It's called the Underdone Podcast. They
basically do what we do here on the
channel. You know, they're looking into
the viral internet mysteries. Okay, no
scary side of Tik Tok, but I think that
they'll get there eventually. And after
seeing the film, A24 had reached out and
asked if I wanted to chat a bit with the
director and writer of the film, Ian
Tuasan. I said yes, of course. We had a
phenomenal conversation. And as I was
editing, you know, I was googling about
the film a little bit to pull some more
information. I wanted to put it into a
YouTube video for you guys. And that is
when I stumbled across something I was
not expecting to find because Undertone
perhaps as I should have expected but
did not see coming has a fullyfledged
out ARG around the film. We're not
talking like little sound bites and
stuff from the movie that are kind of
clever and encourage you to I don't know
go see it although you should. This is a
completely standalone
terrifying web experience that feels
like the olden days of crawling through
a creepy pasta online. And so today,
this is going to be a long video. All
right, I actually was not expecting it
to be as robust as it was. We're going
to go through the entire Undertone ARG
together. And then afterwards, you guys
are going to see my halfhour
conversation with director and writer of
the film, Ian Tuasan. We talked a lot
about the movie uh horror tropes in it.
We talked about like found creepy analog
media on the internet and not once did
this man hit to me that there was a
fullyfledged ARG behind the project. I
think he just knew in his gut that I
would find it. I cannot tell you enough.
You are in for such an incredible treat.
Sit back, relax, get a drink and a
snack. Haven't said that in a while, but
this is going to be a long one. And
enjoy the undertone. So, welcome to the
website of The Undertone Podcast. Uh,
welcome to the Undertone Podcast. Once a
week, we dive into the truly horrifying
world around us and explore eerie true
stories of the strange and mysterious.
Now, there's not much to the homepage.
You can see here there's really just an
episode guide, this little uh snippet
from the actual film. But what we're
going to go to, of course, is the
episodes. The episodes go from like
number 13, it looks like, back to number
six. So, we'll start there and work our
way up. Incoming call. Unknown. November
20th, 2024. I wasn't planning to write
about this, mostly because I still don't
have a good explanation, and I'm not
sure I want one, but a few people I've
mentioned it to said I should document
it somewhere, if only to have a record
in case it keeps happening. About 3
weeks ago, I started getting calls from
a number I didn't recognize. That's not
unusual by itself. Spam calls are
constant. Except this one didn't behave
like spam. No voicemail, no repeated
dialing, just one call a day, always at
the same time. 9:17 p.m. The first
night, I ignored it. The second night, I
let it ring out again. By the third
night, I answered, expecting either a
robocall delay or silence. There was no
delay. Someone was already there. Not
speaking, just present. I could hear
what sounded like a very faint room
noise. No breathing, no movement, just
that soft electrical hum you notice when
a phone line is open. After about 10
seconds, the call disconnected on its
own. No call back option. When I tried
to dial the number, I got an automated
message. This number is not in service.
That should have been the end of it. But
the next night at exactly 9:17 p.m., it
called again. Same result. Silence. Low
ambient noise. Disconnect after 10
seconds. At that point, I assumed it was
some kind of spoofing glitch. I blocked
the number. The call still came through
the next evening. Not from a new number,
from the same one I had blocked. My
phone displayed exactly the same way.
Same area code, same seven digits. I
checked my block list while it was
ringing. It was still there. I answered
again, more out of curiosity than
concern. This time, there was a sound,
not a voice, a click, like someone
pressing a button on an old landline.
Then the call ended immediately. That's
when I started paying closer attention.
I checked my call logs going back
months. The number had never contacted
me before. No connection to anyone I
knew. reverse lookup returned nothing,
not even a spam flag, which is rare by
itself. I decided to test something. The
next night, I sat waiting for a few
minutes before 9:17 with the phone
already unlocked in my hand. At 9:16, my
screen lit up. No vibration, no ring
tone, just the incoming call screen
appearing silently like it had skipped
the part where a call actually comes in.
I answered before it could ring. For a
second, there was nothing at all, not
even the usual background hum. Then I
heard what I can only describe as a
recording of movement. Fabric shifting,
a leg chair scraping lightly across the
floor. And then very clearly, three
taps, not random tapping, deliberate,
evenly spaced, like someone knocking on
a surface to get attention. After that,
the same disconnect tone. I checked the
call duration, 9 seconds. Every call so
far had lasted between 9 and 11 seconds.
No exceptions. At this point, I did what
most people would do and asked friends
if they were messing with me. No one
claimed responsibility and honestly the
logistics don't make sense anyway.
There's no number to trace, no way to
return the call and no app on my phone
shows anything unusual running in the
background. A few nights later,
something changed again. Instead of
ending at 10 seconds, the call stayed
connected. I didn't say anything.
Neither did whoever or whatever was on
the other end. After about 20 seconds, I
noticed a faint sound I hadn't heard
before. Breathing. Not into the phone.
Not close to the microphone, just
somewhere in the space, slow, calm, like
someone standing in a room waiting. I
finally said, "Hello." The breathing
stopped. The line went completely
silent. And then, I don't know how to
phrase this better. I heard what sounded
like my own voice, as if I played it
back from across a room. Hello. The call
disconnected immediately after. Since
then, the number hasn't called again. No
final message, no escalation, just
stopped. But here's the part that made
me decide to write this down tonight. I
was scrolling through my contacts
earlier looking for something unrelated
when I noticed there's now an entry
saved that I definitely didn't create.
No name, just a number. It's the same
one that had been calling me. And under
it in the notes field, there's a single
line. 9:17 was the first time you
answered. I checked the edit history.
The contact was created yesterday at
9:17 p.m. These are comments in response
to this from just various accounts. Um,
the part where you found it in your
contacts gave me chills. Technology
failing is one thing. Recognition is
another that crosses into something else
entirely. This sounds like an old
routing glitch or recycled number issue.
Phone companies reuse lines all the
time, and weird overlaps can happen.
Still creepy, though. I work late and
now I'm going to think about this every
time my phone lights up at 2 a.m. Thanks
for the new paranoia. The Undertone
podcast, as I understand it, always has
like stories sent in. So, I assume that
these are stories coming directly from
the listeners of the Undertone podcast.
As for episode six, that reads like an
old internet creepy pasta to me for uh
reasons we will get into later. That is
very interesting and on the nose for
what this film ends up turning into. And
I have to say I just love this
marketing. I may have already said this
in the intro. Uh I'm filming this part
first, but I love so much that the Blair
Witch Project film, I always go back to
this, had this incredible website back
in the '9s, and it was kind of before
people used the internet for things like
this. I don't know what the first ever
like ARG was, but um many years ago I
went through the website. I think it's
now taken down actually and it just is
so incredible to me. Like I I just love
the world building that this has to
offer, you know. Anywh who on to episode
7, the 1012 problem. And this is written
on December 12th, 2024, 11:15 p.m. In
2019, a watch repair shop in De Moine
logged an unusual service request. The
item was a wall clock, mass-produced,
mid1 1980s battery powered. Nothing
collectible, nothing mechanically
complex. The owner's complaint was
brief. Clock intermittently runs
backward. The technician assumed user
error or a failing quartz movement.
These clocks are cheap, disposable. You
replace the mechanism, not diagnose it.
Except the clock worked perfectly on the
bench. The owner, a woman in her 40s,
returned 2 weeks later. She reported
that the clock only reversed at night,
usually between 11:30 p.m. and midnight.
When it happened, the ticking didn't
change speed. It simply reversed
direction. Second hand first, then
minute, then hour. By morning, it
corrected itself. The technician
replaced the movement anyway. The
problem followed the clock. Skeptical
explanations are easy to list.
Temperature fluctuations can affect
cheap components. Low batteries can
cause stuttering or reversal. Electrical
interference is known to disrupt court's
timing. The owner changed the batteries
daily. She unplugged nearby electronics.
She moved the clock to different rooms.
And the reversal still continued. My
god, this clock is giving this poor
woman one hell of a time. The first
documentation came when the owner set up
a camera. The footage shows the clock
behaving normally until 11:47 p.m. At
that moment, the second hand hesitates,
then begins ticking counterclockwise. No
jump, no glitch. Smooth, intentional. At
11:53, the minute hand follows. The
hourhand lags behind, then complies. The
camera's time stamp continues forward.
The clock does not. What drew wider
attention was not the reversal itself,
but its precision. Each night, the clock
rewound the same point, 10:12 p.m. It
never went further. Once it reached that
time, it stopped. Not paused, stopped.
The owner described the room as feeling
held, like something unfinished was
being revisited. A horologist, I've
never heard that term before, consulted
on the case, confirmed that the
mechanism could not do this under normal
conditions. Even deliberate tampering
would produce erratic movement, not
coordinated reversal across all hands.
More troubling was what appeared after
several weeks. The owner began noticing
discrepancies. Her phone logs showed
calls she didn't remember making, short,
unanswered. Her fitness tracker recorded
steps during the rewind period despite
her being asleep. And always when the
clock stopped at 10:12, she reported a
strong sense of recognition, as if that
time mattered. Attempts to remove the
clock failed. When stored in a drawer,
the sound of ticking continued faintly
through the wood. When the clock was
disassembled, the hands were found
repositioned in the morning. Eventually,
the owner stopped trying to correct it.
She began watching instead. The final
incident occurred on April 3rd. That
night, the clock reversed as usual, but
it did not stop at 10:12. It continued.
At 9:58, the owner woke abruptly, heart
racing. At 9:41, she reported feeling a
pressure in the room, like the air
thickening. At 9:23, the camera feed
distorted briefly. At 9:17,
the clock stopped. The owner later
recalled that time clearly. That's when
I decided not to leave. There's no
official record of what that means. Now,
I believe that these are viewer
submitted stories. the Undertone
podcast. It explores like internet
mysteries and stuff like that, but they
also do receive things from viewers.
They will get like calls into the
podcast, things like that in the film.
And I find it really interesting that
this 917 is following us now from story
to story. The clock was surrendered to
the shop the following morning. It has
not reversed since. It runs forward now
reliably boringly, but technicians know
that it consistently loses time exactly
55 minutes per night, always settling at
p.m. So, the comments here uh include,
"I don't care what the explanation is. I
wouldn't keep that clock in my house."
Something about watching instead feels
like it's giving permission. Memory gaps
and sleep disturbances can absolutely
produce the sensations described. Still,
the clock continuing to lose the same
chunk of time afterwards is unnerving.
This sounds like a bad movement in a
stressed owner reading too much into it.
Cheap clocks do weird stuff all the
time. I'm going to click these little
links and see if anything I don't think
anything's going to pop up. There's not
a ton to click on, but these stories, I
mean, they're fascinating. This is
really, really, really interesting and
adds a lot to the film. I'm hoping that
by the time that you guys are watching
this, you either have plans to see the
film or you have already seen it because
I think that these are really
interesting so far. Um, they all, like I
said, kind of read like creepy pastas.
You guys know I started doing like
viewer scary submission stories. It kind
of feels like that. Anyways, this is the
silent run out. In 2016, a small record
shop in Western Pennsylvania recorded a
vinyl with no return address and no
identifying markings. It arrived in a
plain cardboard sleeve, no postage label
beyond the shop's address, and no note.
The owner assumed it was a donation,
unusual, but not unheard of. The shop
specialized in used records, local
pressings, oddities. The vinyl itself
was unmarked. No label, no catalog
number, no etched matrix code in the
runoff, just a perfectly blank disc. At
first glance, there was nothing
remarkable about it. Standard weight, no
warping, no visible damage. The grooves
looked shallow, but intact. The owner
placed it in the listening booth and
dropped the needle. What came out
sounded like a noise, low hiss, warble,
a faint, uneven hum that rose and fell
as the record turned. No melody, no
rhythm, the kind of thing you'd expect
from a damaged pressing or a novelty art
piece. The owner chocked it up to
experimental audio and moved on. Later
that night, after closing, he played it
again. This time out of idle curiosity.
That's when he noticed something
strange. The noise paused between
rotations. Records aren't supposed to do
that. Surface noise is continuous. Even
silence has texture. Beside gaps,
precise repeating breaks where the hiss
dropped out completely for a fraction of
a second. The owner flipped the record
over. The second side behaved the same
way. Out of curiosity, he played it in
reverse. The sound changed immediately.
The hiss tightened, pulling inward,
reshaping itself into something
structured. Not words at first, just
cadence, timing. The unmistakable rise
and fall of speech without clarity. He
recorded a sample and brought it home.
Slowed down and cleaned up digitally.
The reverse audio resolved into a voice
flat, calm, unacented. You're listening
too fast. The owner stopped playback.
Skeptics point out that humans are
excellent at finding patterns in noise,
especially when primed by expectation.
Reverse audio, in particular, is
notorious for false positives. This is
well documented. The problem is that the
messages didn't stop at one. Each
reverse playback produced a different
phrase, always timed the gaps between
rotations. The messages were short,
observational. This isn't the first time
you skipped the beginning. That's not
where it goes. None of them appeared
when played forward. The owner contacted
an audio engineer friend who confirmed
that the grooves were intentionally cut
to encode backward audio. This alone
wasn't alarming. Back masking has been
used for decades. What concerned him was
the precision. The messages aligned
perfectly regardless of turntable speed,
needle type, or playback system. Analog
variation should have distorted them. It
didn't. Things escalated when the
messages began to change. After several
listens, a new phrase appeared. You
already know this part. The owner
insists he never mentioned his name
during recording or playback. The next
message used it anyway. That's when he
stopped playing the record. Haku, you
gave me a freaking heart attack, my
dude. Months later, the vinyl resurfaced
online. Photos appeared on a forum
dedicated to obscure media posted by
someone claiming to have purchased it
from a flea market. The description
matched exactly the same unmarked disc.
The user uploaded a reversed sample. The
message was different. You weren't the
one. Another upload followed a week
later. Try again, but slower. Attempts
to trace the record's origin have
failed. No pressing plant claims it. The
vinyl formulation doesn't match
commercial blends. No two recordings of
the disc produce identical forward
noise, but the reverse messages remain
consistent within each playback
environment, as if the record is
responding. The shop owner no longer
socks vinyl. He says analog leaves too
much room.
Oh my god. Oh no. Oh no. Oh, I have
tears in my eyes. Oh god. Okay, it's
happening. It's happening. It's
happening. So, so far we have 917 making
multiple appearances throughout these.
We now have backwards audio and we have
this person commenting
saying, "Are you afraid of the silence?"
And I'm scared to click on this. Jack
and Jill singers musical stories with
sound effects recorded by children.
Click to start. Okay.
Number one
every morning.
Hello boys and girls
with all your might. First song will be
Jack and Bill.
>> I guess that was Jack.
Now we'll sing another
girl
in everybody.
>> I suppose that time it was Bill.
>> Now let's go sing.
>> Oh no.
Press R.
I'll be back.
I do
So close.
Okay.
Holy cow. That really caught me off
guard. I was scared to play it too
loudly because the clicks in my ear were
a lot louder than the actual audio. So,
I didn't necessarily hear anything in
the reversed audio. Not off the top of
my head. I'm curious if I will in
editing. Whoa. I was not expecting that.
Okay, so clearly reversing audio is
super important here. And we don't know
who this person is, but are you afraid
of the silence? They said along with
that record of children's songs. And you
can play them in reverse. Wow. This is
I'm I am This is incredible already. I
am geeking. Woohoo doggy. All right, it
is picking up. We have We still have a
lot more episodes to go through here. Um
the Carlton Annex. This one is on paper.
The Carlton Annex has been empty since
1998.
Why is the eight Some of these numbers
are emboldened.
2. Wait,
wait. Some of these numbers are bold. I
think I should write this down. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, on paper,
the Carlton annex has been empty since
1998.
Eight is emboldened there. City records
listed as condemned due to structural
instability. Utilities were shut off,
ownership transferred twice, then
stalled in legal legal limbo. The
building sits on a quiet street
downtown. Windows boarded, doors
chained, paint blistered by decades of
neglect. No one is supposed to be
inside. Multiple people insist
otherwise. The first reports came from m
municipal workers in 2017. Sorry, I feel
like I've been kind of like redoing a
lot of these takes as I've, you know,
been reading these cuz sometimes you you
stumble over words, but I'm getting too
excited now. Assigned to survey nearby
properties ahead of a redevelopment
project. They described lights being
turned on behind boarded windows after
dark. Inspectors dismiss this as
trespassers. That explanation works
until you review the power records.
There are none. The building has no
active electrical service. Still,
residents in adjacent apartments began
reporting movement at night, shapes
crossing rooms, the sound of footsteps
above ground level. Seven, specifically
seven, emboldened there. Seven callers
claimed she heard furniture being
dragged across concrete. Police
performed two wellness checks. Both
times the building was locked from the
outside. Urban explorers eventually took
interest. Photos posted online show four
empty hallways layered in dust, ceiling
sagging, stairwells half collapsed, no
bedding, no food wrappers, no sign of
habitation. But several explorers noted
the same thing. The building felt
occupied, not watched, scheduled. One
explorer described the sensation as
arriving after something already
started. Another reported that their
phone clock jumped forward 7 minutes
while inside.
Those posts were mocked until someone
uploaded audio. The recording is short,
just 68 seconds. Man, this is this is
really starting to get me. It captures
the interior of the annex at night. Wind
through broken windows, distant traffic,
the creek of old beams. Then faintly, a
sound consistent with a door opening on
an upper floor. Footsteps follow. They
stop directly above the recorder. No
voice is heard, but the ambient noise
compresses, thinning as if the space
itself is narrowing. Then a sound like
paper being turned. The footsteps leave.
The recorder's timestamp shows no
interruption. City officials uh reopened
the case in 2022 22 after a construction
crew reported voices coming from the
annex. During a survey, workers
described hearing conversations, low,
indistinct, but clearly structured. When
they approached the building, the voices
stopped. Investigators found no evidence
of squatting. What they did find was a
chalk marking near the rear entrance, a
date. It matched the day of the
inspection. Inside the building,
additional markings were discovered on
interior walls, each listing different
dates, some in the past, some decades
into the future. The handwriting was
consistent throughout. The leading
explanation is psychological priming. A
known creepy location amplifying sounds.
Old buildings shift. Acoustics distort.
Our brains seek intention where there is
none. That theory struggles to explain
why motion sensors installed in the
annex activated at the same time each
night for three consecutive weeks or why
the activation logs show movement
patterns resembling routine. room to
room, floor to floor, always stopping at
11:45
p.m. Man.
Man, these bold numbers are going to get
us in trouble, I fear. Always resuming
the next evening. The annex remains
official.
My hand isn't on the mouse.
Why did that just happen?
Oh, why did that just happen? My hand
wasn't on the mouse. Oh no. I hope that
was my mouse getting like stuck in the
scrolling. That was really scary
actually. Oh. Oh, I don't like it. Uh,
the annex remains officially vacant. No
permits have been issued, no renovations
approved, no occupants listed. And yet,
neighbors report that some nights the
lights inside turn off one by one as if
someone is finishing up for the day.
Those who live nearby say the building
doesn't feel abandoned. It feels in use.
as if the city simply forgot to account
for whatever moved in after everyone
else left. Okay, I have to make sure I
have this final five. Okay, I do. I do.
I do. So, the code is 8772476225.
Is that a phone number? Okay. Okay, I'm
going to call it. I'm really scared, but
I'm going to call it. I don't know if
it's someone's number or not. Like,
nothing is really coming up when I
Google it, but um Okay. Okay. Okay.
Let's let's give it a try.
Hello.
Are you listening?
Simply follow the melody to find the
next puzzle.
Simply
follow the melody to find the next
puzzle.
Okay,
the melody.
Is this more reverse stuff?
>> Oh, and we can't forget the lucky
number.
Forget the lucky number.
What's the lucky number?
The lucky number.
Oh, hello. Um, well, this is awkward.
Uh, I don't know what the lucky number
is. Uh, 917.
So, okay. Nice talking to you. Have a
good day. Bye-bye. Now,
I'm so scared I'm gonna get a call back.
I'm so scared I'm going to get a call
back. Oh, no. I did. I didn't star 67 my
number or whatever it is now. Okay. All
right. Well, in the comments here, um,
if it stops every night at the same
time, what happens if someone's inside
when it doesn't? Old buildings make
noise and people love to mythologize
them. That being said, the lack of power
records paired with the lights is
genuinely strange. The idea of a
building being in use without people is
somehow worse than it being haunted.
That last paragraph stuck with me. Is
the number 917.
This is getting good. Oh, this is
getting good. I can't believe how
detailed this is. I really went into
this just thinking it might be a little
bit of supplementary
stuff for the film and I loved the film
so much I was looking for anything else
that tied into it, but it kind of is an
all-encompassing
um thing. I It's definitely something
unique. And while some of this is tying
in with the film as someone who's seen
it, this is also not all in there so
far. This is not like reused film
footage. So, it's it's kind of crazy.
Okay, this one is titled The Unsentail,
episode 10. In late 2020, a systems
analyst who asked to remain anonymous
forwarded a message to several online
security forums, believing it to be
either a fishing attempt or a poorly
executed prank. The email had no sender
information, no address, no routing
data, no originating IP. According to
the analyst, it appeared in his inbox as
if it had always been there. No
notification, no timestamp anomaly, just
a new unread message threaded between
two legitimate emails. The subject line
read, "Still here." There was no
previous conversation. The body of the
email was short. You don't remember the
quiet part. That's normal. Start with
the attachments. There were three files
attached. All were empty text documents,
each labeled with a date from 2006,
which not to completely break away from
the ARG, but 2006 being 20 years ago,
really does not bode well with the old
login. Um, the analyst assumed
corruption. He ran them through recovery
tools, hex editors, and check some
verifiers. Nothing appeared. Out of
curiosity, he copied one file and
changed the extension. It opened not as
a text, but as a timeline. The file
contained a list of timestamps, each
exactly 11 minutes apart, spanning
several hours on a single night in March
2006. Cross-reerencing the date revealed
nothing notable, no outages, no local
events until the analyst checked his own
history. He had lived in a different
city then, but on that exact night, he
had no digital footprint at all. No
emails, no phone records, no browser
activity, a blank space. The second file
contained a floor plan. It took him
hours to recognize it as the apartment
he lived in at the time. Accurate down
to the narrow closet he used for
storage. A room he rarely entered was
highlighted in gray. The third file
wouldn't open. The analyst attempted to
trace the email's origin. Server log
showed it bypassed the normal routing
entirely, appearing locally rather than
arriving externally. No malware was
detected. No evidence of intrusion. He
considered deleting it. Instead, he
replied, "Who is this?" The response
arrived instantly. "Someone who noticed
when you stopped." At this point,
skeptics point to dissociation,
recovered memory, or an elaborate hoax
requiring insider access. All plausible
explanations. They falter when examining
the third attachment. After the reply,
the file unlocked. Inside was an audio
clip, silent at first glance. When
visualized, it showed repeating trrows
where sound should have been. When
amplified, the analyst heard his own
breathing
slower than he remembered with long
pauses between each inhale
11 minutes apart. The analyst stopped
responding. The emails continued anyway.
Each message referenced mundane details
he hadn't shared online. scratches on
his desk, the hum of his refrigerator,
the way his apartment sounded at night
when everything else stopped. The final
email contained no text, only a subject
line. Found you. He disconnected his
internet that night. The email was still
there in the morning. The account was
closed shortly after. The analyst wiped
his devices and moved. He no longer
works in system security. The emails
have not resurfaced. What remains
unexplained is how the original message
appeared in his inbox before he opened
the account it was sent to, or why,
according to the archived metadata, it
was marked as read 11 minutes before he
first saw it. The comments to this don't
look too crazy. Um, I'm a little on
edge, as you might be able to tell.
Email headers don't just fail to exist
like that. So, either details are being
omitted or the story is embellished.
Still, the local only delivery is really
an odd touch. Everyone's asking who sent
the emails, but not why they waited so
long to follow up. Someone who noticed
when you stopped implied this wasn't the
first time. Disassociation and memory
gaps can absolutely happen under stress,
especially around the mid200s when
logging wasn't as complete. The
personalization is what makes it harder
to dismiss. We have three more episodes
and something tells me this is only
going to get worse. Okay. The Hawthorne
Cara notes. In 2018, a woman named
Marissa Hail began documenting unusual
behavior in her grandmother's home. Not
because she believed anything paranormal
was happening, but because she was
afraid she was missing something
medically important. Her grandmother,
Eleanor Hawthorne, was 89 years old and
in the early stages of dementia. Marissa
had moved into the house full-time after
Eleanor began wandering at night and
forgetting where she was. The first
notes were practical. sleep disruption,
auditory hallucinations, possible
sundowning. Marissa kept a notebook on
the kitchen counter and wrote in it
whenever something felt off. At the
time, she assumed it would all make
sense later. It mostly didn't. The house
was old, but unremarkable, singlestory,
built in the 1950s, no history of deaths
or renovations. Neighbors described it
as quiet, normal. The issues began
around 2:00 a.m. Marissa would wake to
Eleanor sitting upright in bed, staring
into the hallway. When asked what was
wrong, Eleanor would respond calmly.
Someone standing where the house ends.
Doctors attributed this to confusion and
fear. A lowd dose sleep aid was
prescribed. The behavior continued. Soon
after, Eleanor began speaking to someone
Marissa couldn't see. Not conversations,
short, polite responses, pauses,
listening, sometimes nodding. Marissa
recorded one of these incidents on her
phone to show the doctor. The video
shows Eleanor sitting at the edge of the
bed, handsfolded, eyes focused, just
past the door frame. At one point,
Eleanor says, "No, she's awake now.
Marissa is visible in the mirror behind
her." Skeptical explanations are
plentiful. Dementia patients often
misinterpret shadows and sounds. Pattern
recognition breaks down. The brain fills
gaps. This explains the perceived
presence, the fixation, even the timing.
What it doesn't explain is the house
itself beginning to change. Marissa
noted temperature drops in specific
rooms. Cold spots are common in older
homes, especially at night, but these
were localized and brief, always in the
hallway outside Eleanor's bedroom.
Motion lights installed as a safety
measure began activating without visible
cause. The electrical inspections found
no faults. The most troubling change
came in Eleanor's sleep patterns. She
stopped waking at night. Instead, she
began sitting up at exactly 2:07 a.m.,
eyes open, breathing shallow, remaining
perfectly still for several minutes
before lying back down. Marissa timed it
every night. Six minutes.
You know, I'm not noting these numbers
anymore. Um, clearly the numbers are Oh
my god. Wait, the page keeps scrolling
by itself. That must be my mouse, right?
That's weird. Anyways, I'm not noting
the numbers anymore. You know, nothing's
emboldened here or anything like that,
but it's possible that this leads to
more. Um, I was doing a little bit of
research on this and the ARG is unsolved
as far as I understand it. So, in March,
Eleanor's condition worsened rapidly.
She became withdrawn, stopped
recognizing Marissa, and refused to
enter certain rooms. When asked why, she
whispered, "That's where it waits when
I'm not done." Doctor suggested hospice
care. On Elanor's final night, Marissa
sat beside her bed. notebook in hand. At
2:07 a.m., Eleanor's eyes opened. She
didn't look at Marissa. She looked down
the hallway and smiled faintly. "You can
come closer," she said. "She won't
interrupt." Marissa reports a sudden
sensation of pressure in the room, like
a change in altitude. Her ears popped.
The hallway felt longer than it should
have. At 2:13 a.m., Eleanor exhaled and
did not inhale again. After the funeral,
Marissa moved out. She later reviewed
her notes while preparing them for her
therapist. That's when she noticed
something she insists she didn't write.
Between entries and handwriting that
resembles Eleanor's but shakier is a
repeated sentence. It takes turns.
Marissa doesn't believe the house was
haunted. She doesn't believe her
grandmother was seeing ghosts. She
believes Eleanor was aware of something
that arrives when people slow down
enough to notice it. Something patient,
structured, and polite. Something that
waits at the edge of the house and stays
longer when someone is being cared for.
No, no, no, no. There's another link.
Oh, dear God, I'm so scared. This is
genuinely terrifying. Okay, on the call,
it said to remember the number. We have
the phone number. We also have 917. I'm
not sure what this link is going to lead
us to. Um, let's go ahead and click it.
I I can't read these other comments
until I know. Mother dearest sends her
love.
Okay.
No.
Oh, dear God.
I'm so scared. Why is this happening?
Why is this happening? Why would this
happen? Why would this happen? Why would
this happen to me specifically? Why
would this happen to me specifically?
What is this? I cannot be this close to
MY COMPUTER RIGHT NOW. NO. NO. I DON'T
KNOW WHAT it said, but I'm scared. I
don't know what it said, but I'm so
scared. Oh my god.
This is awful. This is so bad.
Okay, so for context, this plays in the
movie is like a cursed video thing.
OH MY GOD. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my
god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god.
This is awful. This is horrible. Why
would anyone ever do this to me? That is
a screen grab from the movie. I don't
know if it kept repeating because I'm
not sure what was flashing on screen.
Hopefully in editing I'll be able to
find if it's something other than just
what we were seeing.
Oh my god. Okay, so that video in the
film is uh this like cursed video that
the main character Eevee, she plays um
and her co-host is like super freaked
out by it. some sort of like oh 2:07
a.m. Maybe 2:07 we also need to keep in
mind. Um but her co-host doesn't love
it. It has a huge role in the film. I
don't want to give too much away, but
that's also why it was freaking me out
so bad. This is also interesting. The
name here is AB YZ Ou. And I'm cheating
a wee bit, but I did find um a Reddit
post about the ARG. I'm so far away from
my computer cuz that scared me so badly.
Actually, I think that you guys know
this, but like especially filming these
alone, like not on stream or anything. I
get so genuinely scared. I realized that
in reading the Reddit post that this is
Abuzu. Abuzu, maybe we should give that
a little Google. Abuzu, I don't know if
I'm saying that correctly, is a female
demon in Neareastern and European
folklore. Notorious as a child snatching
infertile entity blamed for miscarriages
and infant mortality. Motivated by envy,
she's often depicted with fish or
serpent-like features on amulets. She
appears in the Testament of Solomon as a
greenish entity with tangled hair, often
identified with gillu or Lilith. She's
often blamed for miscarriages, infant
mortality, was said to be motivated by
envy as she herself was infertile. She
is here and she is commenting. We have
two more episodes left and I swear to
you guys, I am starting to freak the
hell out here. This is also, like I
said, just so much beefier than I
thought it would be. I'm so impressed by
the level of detail that has gone into
this. It's clearly not just like a film
promotion thing, which I was hopeful
that it was going to be, you know,
something real, and based on some of the
stuff that I had seen, I assumed it was
going to be real, but damn. All right,
the holotape incident before our final
post. May 15th, 2025. That's 5 days
before my birthday. In 2009, a missing
person's case in Northern Oregon briefly
attracted national attention before
disappearing almost entirely from public
record. The victim was 26-year-old Leah
Marado, last seen leaving her night
shift at a rural gas station just off
Highway 22. There were no signs of
struggle, no abandoned vehicle, no
witnesses. Her phone was found at home
charging. Cases like this don't usually
go quiet. This one did. Officially, the
investigation stalled due to lack of
evidence. Unofficially, several officers
requested reassignment within 6 months
of the search. The reason for that
didn't surface until years later when a
box of evidence tapes was digitized as
part of a cold case backlog. Only one of
those tapes mattered. The recording came
from a security camera mounted behind
the gas station counter. It captured
audio continuously even when the video
feed glitched, which it did often due to
the station's proximity to a
decommissioned radio tower. The night
Leah vanished, the video froze at 11:58
p.m. The audio did not. At first,
investigators believed the tape to
contain nothing of value. No argument,
no raised voices, no movement, just
background noise, room tone. That
changed when a forensic audio analyst
slowed the tape to half speed. Beneath
the hum of fluorescent lights and
distant traffic was a second layer, an
absence that repeated every 13 seconds.
Not silence exactly, but a hollowing, as
if the sound had been scooped out and
put back slightly wrong. The analyst
flagged it as equipment degradation.
That explanation held until multiple
technicians began reporting headaches
during playback. One described the
sensation as standing too close to a
large, quiet machine. Another asked that
the audio be stopped because it felt
like waiting for something to finish.
Skeptics point out that long- form
ambient recordings can induce
discomfort, especially when listeners
are primed to expect something
disturbing. This is well documented. It
explains the headaches, the unease. It
does not explain why exactly at 12:04
a.m. Leah's voice appears on the tape.
She isn't speaking. She's breathing. Oh
my god, Haunter just went to like jump
into my lap and I've never been so
scared of anything in my life. The sound
is faint, rhythmic, and very close to
the microphone. There is no
corresponding video, just a frozen frame
of an empty counter. Investigators
initially assumed this was residual
audio from earlier in the night, a
technical overlap, except Leah had
stopped working the register at 11:45,
and the breathing continues for nearly 3
minutes. At one point, something else
joins it. not another person. A pause. A
deliberate gap between breaths stretched
just long enough to feel intentional.
The back door just opened by itself. I
genuinely feel like there is paranormal
activity happening within my very home
at this point. I am so freaked out. And
there is going to be a second part to
this video where I'm going to have a
conversation with the director of the
film. We did not talk about the ARG. I
actually did not know that the ARG
existed until after our conversation.
And it's really weird because he said
during our interview that paranormal
things were happening on the set of
Undertone as they were filming. I'm so
scared. The breathing continues for
nearly three minutes after she stops
working the register at 11:45. At one
point, something else joins it. Not
another person, a pause. A deliberate
gap between breaths, stretched just long
enough to feel intentional. The analysts
disagreed on what caused it. Some
suggested stress induced irregular
breathing. Others suggested
interference. One junior technician
reviewing the waveform late at night
noted something different. The breathing
adjusted when the hollowing occurred, as
if it were listening for it. Police
attempted to reconstruct Leah's
movements using the audio timeline. At
12:07 a.m., there's a soft sound
consistent with fabric shifting. At
12:09, a faint impact, possibly a hand
against the counter. No footsteps, no
door chime. Then at 12:11, the breathing
stops. The hollowing does not. For the
next 47 seconds, the tape records only
the repeating absence, 13 seconds apart,
perfectly consistent. When the video
feed resumes again at 12:58 a.m., the
store is empty. Leah is never seen
again. The official explanation cites
faulty equipment, audio bleed, and
coincidence. The radio tower
interference, investigators say,
accounts for the anomalies. The
breathing is dismissed as paridolia, a
mind filling in patterns where none
exist. The case remains open but
inactive. What isn't in the official
report is what happened during
digitization. Technicians noticed that
when the tape ended, the room felt
wrong. Not quiet, but unfinished. One
worker reported instinctively holding
his breath, afraid of interrupting
something. Another said the silence felt
expected. The final technician assigned
to the tape requested removal from the
project entirely. His written note is
brief. The recording doesn't capture a
disappearance. It captures the moment
something finished listening. The tapes
have since been sealed. Decommissioned
radio tower was dismantled in 2016.
Residents nearby report that some nights
are too quiet now. Not empty, but shaped
as if something is still replaying the
gaps, waiting for the breathing to come
back. Everyone keeps asking what's
happened to Leah, but I think the
scarier question is why the tape keeps
going forward. It's like waiting for
someone else to notice. Taylor Reeds
also says, "Uh, radio interference can
absolutely mess with old security
systems, especially near decommissioned
towers. Still, the timing lining up so
cleanly every 13 seconds is hard to wave
away." This might be me being a little
bit nitpicky, but every single other
post has had three comments exactly like
three responses.
And so, it's weird that this one does
not. Last but not least, and I have a
funky feeling about this one, is episode
13, The Quiet Hours case. Um, a
supposedly debunked 2014 case of shared
unnatural silence on a busy street
resurfaces when investigators discover
measurable patterns in someone
breathing, embedded not in sound, but in
its absence. In the fall of 2014, the
residents of Maple Street uh reported a
string of complaints that at first
glance sounded almost laughable. No
breakins, no vandalism, no missing
persons, just silence. Not the absence
of sound, something else. A quiet so
intense it caused panic attacks,
nosebleleeds, insomnia. Several callers
used the same phrase without knowing one
another. It feels like the room is
listening. Police logged it as a
nuisance pattern. Environmental noise
complaints misfiled by anxious
residents. The report stopped after a
few weeks, and the street faded back
into obscurity. If not for one detail,
this would be where the story ends. The
detail is that the houses were never
quiet. Maple Street sits less than a
mile from the interstate. Traffic noise
is constant. Even at night, there's a
low mechanical hiss that never fully
goes away. Multiple sound surveys
confirmed this. Average decibel levels
were well within normal range. Yet,
between October 3rd and October 27th, 12
separate households reported the same
phenomenon, always between 12:40 a.m.
and 1:10 a.m. A pressure in the air, a
sensation of being observed, and a
silence that wasn't measurable, but was
unmistakable. One resident, a retired
audio engineer named Thomas Hail,
attempted to record it. Hail was known
in the neighborhood as practical, even
dismissive of anything supernatural. He
set up three microphones in the living
room, each calibrated differently. When
the event occurred, he said that the
room felt muted, like sound was being
wrapped in fabric. The recordings show
nothing unusual, which is the problem.
At 12:47 a.m., all three audio feeds
dropped to a flatline for exactly 9
seconds. Not static, not distortion,
absence. Investigators initially blamed
a power fluctuation. That explanation
works until you notice that Hail's lamp
remained on. His refrigerator never
cycled off and his backup recorder
battery powered experienced the same
drop. After 9 seconds, the audio resumed
9 seconds again. Remember, in the very
first story, there was a gap of like 9
to 11 seconds. Hail moved out 2 days
later. Skeptics have offered several
explanations. Infrared sound is the most
popular. Low frequency vibrations, often
from traffic or industrial systems, can
cause the page keeps buffering. And I
don't think I like that. And I don't
think I've noticed that before. Okay.
Can cause unease, dread, or even
hallucinations. It keeps it explains the
anxiety, the pressure, the shared
descriptions. It does not explain why
multiple residents reported hearing
their names spoken during the quiet
period, not allowed internally. One
woman described it as thinking a thought
I didn't start. Another claimed the
silence had reacted to her breathing
growing heavier when she held it, easing
when she exhaled. These statements were
dismissed as stress responses until a
police officer experienced it firsthand.
Officer Rachel Kim was dispatched on
October 19th after a resident reported
the quiet starting early. Kim entered
the home at 12:42 a.m. Her body cam
footage shows nothing out of the
ordinary until 12:48. At that moment,
the audio track does something strange.
It doesn't cut out. It compresses.
Ambient noise, fabric rustling, Kim's
breathing, the faint radio chatter. It
folds inward as if squeezed through a
narrow space. Kim stops mid-sentence.
She doesn't move for several seconds.
Later, she would say that she was aware
but afraid to speak. It felt like if I
made a sound, she said something would
answer. At 12:48 and 9 seconds, the
compression releases. Kim exhales
sharply and asks to leave the house. She
transferred preync the following month.
The official conclusion cites a
combination of environmental factors,
confirmation bias, and mass anxiety. The
case is considered closed. But there's
one final piece that doesn't fit. In
2021, long after the report stopped, a
grad student studying acoustic anomalies
digitized Hail's original recordings
using newer software. She wasn't looking
for ghosts, just data. She found
something embedded in the silence. Not
sound, but structure. A pattern in the
absence itself. Oh no. Oh god, it's
starting. Okay. Uh, repeating every 9
seconds across all files, the same shape
every time, like a mold cast from
nothing. When the student isolated the
pattern and converted it into an audible
frequency range, she expected static.
Instead, she heard breathing, slow,
patient, waiting for the space between
sounds to open again. The files are
archived now, access restricted.
Officially, they're labeled corrupted.
Unofficially, technicians report that
when playback ends, the room feels wrong
for a few seconds longer than it should.
Like, something doesn't realize the
noise has come back yet. Like, it's
still listening. Can you hear me,
guys? I think this is going to be bad. I
think this is going to be really,
really, really bad. I'm ready. I'm
ready. I'm ready. This is our last
thing, right? Like, nothing else is
possibly going to happen from here. Say
hello.
No. No.
No.
Oh my god, there are tears in my eyes.
Okay.
Hello.
>> Hello.
>> Oh my god.
>> Who is this?
>> Yes, it is.
>> Who? Who is it?
Who is this?
>> Yes, it is.
>> Can you hear me?
>> I can hear you.
>> Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my
god. Oh my god.
I am so scared right now.
You should be.
>> Oh my god. Girl, how are you doing that?
>> Who is this?
>> Yes, it is.
>> Are you Abuzu? Where are you right now?
I think it responds to certain
questions. I don't think it's AI because
it it's giving the same answer when I
ask specific questions. Can you see me?
Are you there?
>> I can hear you.
>> Are you the demon?
>> What is the magic number?
>> The lucky number for this puzzle is 440.
>> 440. The lucky number for this puzzle is
440.
>> The lucky number for this puzzle is 4.
How do I use the lucky number?
>> The lucky number for this puzzle is 440.
>> 440.
>> Can't think of what else to ask cuz like
I said, I don't think it's AI. It's
answering specifically to specific
questions. It's like it clearly like
recognizes certain things.
I wonder where you put in this lucky
number.
The lucky number for this puzzle is 40.
>> What is your name?
>> Who are you?
>> I pray for you.
A play for me. What about the dark?
I like it here in the dark. Come and
join me at forward slash in the dark 13
and use the password a l a t o n.
>> Oh my god. Okay. I had gone to the
Reddit to see what other people said and
someone specifically
talked about that phrase
cuz I was wondering if I was missing
anything in particular. A l a t o n
sad
family
had wonder.
Oh my god.
>> Is there anything?
The lucky number. Wait, the lucky number
is the number of seconds in the audio
clip. Speed up the audio clip to find
the real next puzzle. Now, I don't
understand because if it's the number of
seconds in the audio clip, wouldn't you
slow that down instead of speeding it up
to make it 404 seconds? Cuz it's at 56
seconds right now. Wo. This is crazy.
Holy cow. So, this would be, I think,
the natural end of my personal
investigation cuz I'm not sure
what exactly
that
is. I think that I'm missing that one. I
I tried listening to it a couple
different ways. I'm not quite finding
it. So, I was seeing that there's one
other link here that I think you can
find in reversing
one of the audio files. So, apparently
if we had listened to this, I had missed
this, but it was supposed to lead us to
this site of course/silence,
which takes us to a 404. What a fun
project. This was absolutely such an
incredible way for me to introduce this
movie to y'all. I I was expecting this
to be such a brief thing. Um so that I
can then share with you the uh interview
that I did with the incredible director
and writer of Undertone Ian to Awesome.
Uh it ended up being something else
entirely. So what an absolute treat this
was. It's been a while since I sank my
teeth into something this robust and I
am incredibly thankful. I I wish I could
figure out this final password or this
final little mystery, but according to
Reddit as well, the ARD is unsolved. So,
if there are any updates here, I I will
be sure to let you know. I literally
just finished filming that. You know,
grabbed some water, came in here, and
turned on my lights and stuff. And I
have to tell you, I wasn't expecting
that. I am so incredibly pleased. It
took a bit longer than I was expecting,
but how incredibly fun. I really miss
going through ARGs like this. You know,
I love the Tik Tok videos and stuff like
that, but there's something different to
a lot of these ARGs when they're written
out so fully. I love solving the codes.
I love delving into the puzzles. I I
love random numbers to call and stuff
like that. Like, this was just
everything I love about an ARG. And so,
now, let's take a moment to chat with
the writer and director of Undertone,
Ian Tuasan. And thank you so much to A24
for the opportunity. Um, I am so
grateful and this was such a fun
conversation to have. I would also say
light spoilers ahead for some details of
the plot and stuff like that, but you
also got a bit of it through the ARG, so
it may just help you connect the dots.
Hi, I'm Louis Lane. I am here with
director of Undertone, Ian Tuasan.
>> Hey, how are you?
>> So good. Thank you so much for taking
the time. I love the film. Undertone is
a horror film all about sound. And I
feel like in a lot of cases, horror
films focus more on the visual and those
sort of maybe jump scare aspects and
that sort of thing. And then sound is
almost supplementary in that way. Um,
and in that way, undertone is unlike
anything I've ever seen. So, what
inspired you to take such a unique
approach to horror? I'm a big fan of
found footage film and uh I wanted to
to combine found footage and traditional
cinema and and I I had this idea of uh
of found audio found audio clips which
to me were the scariest types of of uh
found media going around on on the
creepy pasta blo blog sites like ghosts
caught on on uh EVP recordings
and uh e and even hidden messages in in
songs played in reverse. That all scared
me. So I started writing around that and
it it it was it was the it it started
off as a radio play. I just wanted it to
be the the two podcasters
uh listening to to these audio files and
then the scary stuff in the files starts
bleeding into the studio. But then, you
know, later it evolved to what was Eevee
doing in between sessions, recording
sessions, and I'm and then I thought,
well, she's caregiving her mom, just
like I was at the time when I was
writing it. Then I was able to to think
about the the shots
uh and at the same time
create uh some a 3D soundsscape of
uh for this character that's stuck in in
this house. I I kind of thought of uh
going into a a haunted house amusement
park ride and that that's kind of how I
designed it.
So it is a this is a theatrical
experience. Uh if if you don't watch it
in Dolby Atmos, then you've you've
missed a lot of the of the movie of the
or the intention in the movie.
>> Absolutely. The sound is so crucial here
and I know a lot of us like to wait for
things to come to screening to streaming
rather. Uh but this is one you have to
see in theaters. It is just like such a
unique feeling to be surrounded by the
audio so fully.
>> Were you watching it in a theater alone?
>> No, I was with people.
>> Ah, cuz I heard some some YouTubers were
were offered uh time alone in a theater
and that and then and then that was a
different experience for them just being
alone in the theater.
>> I can't even imagine watching the final
10 minutes of that film by myself in a
theater. I I think I would have just
completely freaked out, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That I mean that's that
you're sitting down just like Eevee is
and everything is happening around you
and where do you go? Where do you go at
that point?
>> Yeah. You're just you're just trapped
with it. I loved that you mentioned um
creepy pastas because you know in
Undertone Eevee and her podcast host
Justin, they're diving down a bit of an
internet rabbit hole and trying to solve
the mystery of these disturbing audio
files that have been sent to them. And
for me, I have always loved the idea of
like I guess what you call like internet
urban legends, ARGs, alternate reality
games, creepy pastas. I just love online
internet uh internet horror. Um, and to
me, the emails feel a lot like that
found footage. So, I can totally see
that inspiration there. Was there one
project or maybe a couple of projects in
particular that inspired that feel of
the film or was it just like a love
letter to that found footage internet
culture?
>> I think there's a there's one on YouTube
called Marble Hornets.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Marble Hornets is great.
>> Yeah. So yeah, I would I was inspired a
lot by by these kinds of anonymously
made content on on YouTube or on the
internet. They're all they were always
scarier than the movies that were coming
out
>> for sure. I feel like when you're
watching a film and you know it's you
know you're walking into a theater and
you know you're going to be kind of
sucked out of reality for a bit, there's
this almost level of protection that you
have against like you know whatever
you're watching. But that online found
footage feel
you constantly sort of second guessess
yourself like is this real? Is it not
real? Even if you, you know, know in
your core, okay, nobody is getting
stalked by Slender Man in this moment or
something. Um, but I feel like Undertone
really brings that feel of like while
you're watching it, you know, you know
you're watching a film, but these audio
files really start to just creep into
your brain. And I found myself kind of
excited that I felt like I almost knew
more than what the main characters did
in the moment.
>> Oh yeah. I think that's the I think
that's the best part about found
footage. uh the the genre, the film
genre, because a lot of the time the
character just leaves the camera in the
room and they don't see what's happening
in the room and then uh yeah, you're in
on it as the as the audience.
>> I feel like almost in this film too, you
you're really good at making the
audience feel almost like they're part
of the movie. And you know, we we don't
have a huge cast of characters to play
with in the film, so it feels really
special. It really does feel like we're
kind of living it in the moment
alongside Eevee. And I wanted to ask, is
there like a particular moment that you
hope the audience catches? I feel like
there was always something going on in
the background or maybe even things that
you wouldn't catch until your second
watch through. Is there anything that
you hope that audiences maybe notice
before Eevee and her podcast host Justin
catch it themselves?
>> There's there's a few things that we
intentionally did. Uh I won't name all
of them and and see if if I go online I
maybe someone might have caught caught
something and posted it. For example,
there's a scene where
where Eevee puts the the figurine inside
the walk-in closet and she she she
closes the door real fast and the the
mirror mounted on the back of the door.
Pans whip pans across the room. Uh we
had mama standing in front of them in
the mirror behind Eevee, but not
everyone notices that. Did you notice
that? I did and they had miked me for
the film. They were catching my
reaction. I was like miked and they were
filming down there and I was the only
person in my little section of the
theater who caught it. So you just hear
me going like that really loudly and
everyone around me is like what? Like
she Nothing happened and I said I swear
you know somebody was behind her in the
mirror and they didn't believe me until
a bit later in the film.
>> Wow. Yeah.
>> Oh that's that's funny that that's the
one that I mentioned.
>> Yeah. And that was that was a really
strong moment for me as well because
>> it let me know that, you know, Eevee
isn't necessarily seeing the entirety
kind of like what I said before of
what's happening around her. And it's
interesting to think the reality that
she sees
isn't really always what's going on.
Another really um incredible moment that
I caught and you know nobody was
necessarily there that we could see in
this moment was when um they had I
believe just started listening to the
tapes and she's alone in her kitchen you
know sitting there with her whole
podcast setup which was really fun to
see as well you know just her kind of
like transplanting into her childhood
home with this but as she's talking a
light turns off I believe in the
background it It really, really, really
got me because then I'm wondering who's
in this house with her. Earlier you were
mentioning um the figurine that Eevee
had specifically put into the closet.
And something I found really interesting
with Undertone is that um our main
character Eevee, this skeptic out of the
Undertone podcast duo, she returns to
her childhood home to take care of her
terminally ill mother. And there's a lot
of religious connotation
um within a lot of her talking about her
relationship with her mother and there's
tons of religious memor memorabilia
around the house. And I find it really
interesting that Eve's mother is a
believer not necessarily in the
paranormal but in God. And I was
wondering if you felt like maybe Eevey's
skeptical nature, does that partially
come from that religious background of
her mom being such a believer in this
stuff?
>> I I was exploring the the the theme of
Catholic guilt. She was she's guilt
tripped by her mom for not going to
church or uh you know she she confesses
to one caller that she didn't pray for
her mom and she kind of blames herself
for her mom's decline in health. And uh
you know that this guilt is kind of
one of the strong emotions that that
that's haunting her and that she's
trying to repress and that she is
denying.
Like she could if if she talked about
it, she might have gotten some help from
Justin or or or elsewhere.
And that that was her mistake was that
she just decided to repress it with
alcohol and and lying about it. That
guilt I think is conditioned when you're
because I grew up Catholic and a lot of
the time they their
you know that the way the the Catholic
Church their inter interpretation of of
God is or or of the Bible is one of a
you know a vindictive God which isn't
really
uh
isn't really made clear in in the
scripture. uh you you could you could
interpret the scripture in many
different ways and it's it's almost like
audioenia where uh it's it depends on
your perception of what of the scripture
and if if it is if you're in a a good
mindset or a good state of mind and you
and you go to church and you notice the
singing and the the community and and
you feel good about it. But if you're
also you could also go in there thinking
you're being judged and that's not
something that you might not want to you
you might not like. So it's so she's
struggling with that. She has an inner
struggle going on in her because she's
you know she does she seems to be a
believer but for some reason she's she's
in denial of of that belief for for
whatever reason. And in this case, the
reason is uh you know ch childhood
trauma from you know be of of you know
going to mass and and feeling like uh
someone's waving your finger at you
saying shame on you. That's as a kid you
can't really
you don't really know the difference.
But, you know, cuz I'm a believer. I And
I I can see I can see certain things
about the church that that I think may
be harmful and and I don't know if many
people are aware of it. But, you know,
these are just this is just you human
interpretation, right? So, it's not it's
never the religion, it's always the the
human or the person, right?
>> Oh, absolutely. I grew up religious as
well and my parents um worked in every
denomination. They uh they worked in
music so we kind of were like a
traveling circus of sorts just doing
music things at different churches. And
it was interesting to see a lot of that
um religious memorabilia kind of shown
in a way that felt a little foreboding
almost like you were being watched by
someone. Um, and I'm not sure that I've
ever heard someone or or watched
anything where someone classified it
that way because I totally I grew up in
the church and would see certain things
and and I would be like, "That's a
little that's a little scary." I
remember having to ask my mom, "Why are
we drinking the blood of Jesus?" And
they had to like sit me down and have a
whole conversation. So, I I totally see
that.
>> Yeah. I mean, yeah, I they they looked
scary to me. the portraits in my in my
parents house. There, you know, there's
a man that's suffering on a cross and uh
I'm I'm I'm Filipino. So, we like to
make those statues very detailed. I
think the intention was lost there uh
when the the first the you know the
church down there that wanted to make
these statues more realistic but that's
only because
uh they they they preached a certain way
where they want they wanted to to show
uh how much um a man sacrificed
uh based on unconditional love that was
in his heart. But that could be
interpreted in in other ways. Uh
especially if if you go if you have
parents who are strict and that are kind
of uh telling you that you're being
judged and that and maybe that what what
you see in statue is
is what's going to happen to you if
you're if you're bad, right? and and
then you you kind of if you feel
uncomfortable around it and then you
don't and then you just ignore it. And I
I think that's what that's why I put
those
uh photos of residential school kids in
in the movie because uh I feel like
there's not a lot of people talking
about what what's going on in the the
indigenous community in Canada. And I
think the reason why is because
they're they're they probably are
unconsciously guilty and that's an
uncomfortable feeling. So they just kind
of not want to talk about it. There's a
lot of there's a lot of things I can say
about about this topic. That's probably
why I I spent so much time writing this
this this movie.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I I think that that's
really interesting and you know to pivot
it back to the film.
It's interesting how towards the end you
know Eevee parades herself as this
skeptic and every time that you know her
her host is bringing her anything
paranormal she's like oh there's an
explanation for that. And it's really
interesting to me that at the end we
almost see maybe a glimpse of the true
her when she has this moment of guilt,
this moment of breakdown where she's
like, "No, I do believe that this is my
fault." Which of course means that there
is a belief in in something greater. I
find that really interesting and I I
love the use of um all of that in the
film. I think it's really really
powerful. I was going to say I am
officially an aspiring filmmaker myself.
I've learned how to use Final Draft.
It's all very exciting. Um, but I feel
like so many people when you first start
writing, you know, like your first ever
script, a lot of people that I've talked
to have said, try to use as few
locations as you can. You know, everyone
talks about the power of having a one
location film. Um, and and how that can
be made so much faster and and whatnot.
Um, but in Undertone, the house is
anything but simple. it is like ever
changing around us and feels like a
living part of the story almost like a
character in itself. And I was curious,
was there anything in particular that
led you to keeping the entire story in
that one location? Because Eevee does,
you know, leave the house throughout the
film and I think it's so interesting
that we as the audience don't follow
her. We only see her journey within that
space.
>> Yeah. I I was I was writing for for that
reason to keep it in one location so it
would be feasible. Uh it was something
that I that I was going to finance just
myself and shoot it with a few friends.
Uh but then uh one of my producers, Dan
Slater, got a hold of the script and
wouldn't let me do that and then got it
done uh properly.
Uh but yeah, that's that's that would be
my advice to to any aspiring filmmaker
is, you know, I had the house and I had
this this pool of money here and I just
wrote to to what I had. I wrote to my
the resources that I had. And once you
do that, something changes and it'll
change your writing as well because I
didn't really care what anyone thought
cuz I used to write and I would think
about sending it off to different
producers and what do they what what
would they think, right? And I really
didn't give a [__] The undertone came
from from that sort of attitude. And
once you, you know, once you, you don't
care. Uh, yeah, magic happens. I mean,
there there's this poet, what's his
name? Forgot his name, but his, uh, his
epitap on his gravestone was,
uh, don't try.
Do you guys know who I'm talking about?
Yeah. Charles Bowski. Yeah. That Yeah.
So, he was uh I remember hearing his uh
watching his his life story on a YouTube
video, a good one about how he was
working in the mail room of a I think it
was a publishing house and and then um
yeah, same thing he did he started
writing uh without without caring what
other people thought and and as soon as
that happens
then someone became interested And it
because it you can you can read it in in
the thing that you you make. You can
kind of feel it.
So when you know just if if you can get
to that point uh it'll it'll happen on
its own. But just be honest too because
what but that's another thing that comes
comes from not caring is you are honest
because why why would you lie to
yourself right? And then yeah, then all
>> it almost writes itself at that point.
>> Yeah.
>> When you love when you love something,
you don't care what other people think
and you just and you know you're going
to make it no matter what. You know, and
then once you're at that point, it it's
it's going to be good. And there's
there's probably so much authenticity
that comes with writing something just
for yourself that, you know, it doesn't
necessarily matter what anybody thinks
about it. Um, and that's something I
struggle a lot with with writing. Uh, is
I always think to myself like, oh, is
this going to be taken a weird way?
Would this plot device work? What would
somebody think of this? And it's like
nobody's reading it in that moment but
you, you know, it's just pen to paper,
fingers to keyboards. And and I think
that that's really really valuable
advice is to just write what what you
want to write and not necessarily care
what anyone thinks because you probably
do just hit a flow state where it's like
the story that's meant to come out of
you is you know
>> coming out.
>> But then listen to people though once
you make it
>> because then then you then you listen
and then they and then if you get enough
enough feedback that says you're wrong
about this thing then you're probably
wrong.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. But, you know, you still need to
get to that state in order to to vomit
that thing out of your out of yourself
and on onto paper.
>> Absolutely. I think that's really really
solid advice. Thank you. I wanted to
talk a bit about actress uh Nina Kiri
who plays Eevee in the film and she just
does such a remarkable job. There were
so many moments where I I didn't even
realize she was really the only like
living actor on the screen. We of course
had her mother. We had Justin, you know,
we had um we had a few other characters
uh throughout
>> the nurse. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> A nurse that was always offcreen. Yeah.
>> Mhm. Yeah. And and they do feel really
really human. You know, you hear their
voices and it does feel a bit like we
know them and I almost had this visual
of Justin in my head, but we don't see
them. Um and her mother is in the house,
but you know, she's supposed to be
asleep in the bed for most of the film.
Was it always meant to just be Eevee?
Did you ever consider letting letting
anyone else into the home, so to speak?
>> Once I started writing, I it just made
sense to me that we wouldn't see
anyone's face. And when we started
filming, you know, there were talks
about having showing, you know, Justin
on FaceTime or something like that. But
I said no. Uh, I set a I set a principle
that we had to follow throughout the
whole film, which was we only see
Eeveey's open eyes
except for one shot where Mama opens her
eyes. So, we don't see anyone's eyes in
the movie except for Eevee.
>> And uh that and then that that makes or
that turns her into an unreliable
narrator because there's no one else to
witness what's happening to her. So is
are are we
you know is these are these things
happening in reality or or is it just
through the you know through the eyes of
of this one unraveling character. So
that was a that was a deliberate choice
uh right right from the start.
>> Yeah that's really interesting. I I
loved that. I mean, like I said, I think
it's so impressive. She essentially, you
know, was just there by herself, but it
felt so I never to myself was like, "Oh,
we're just watching one person in a
movie." Um, she did a really incredible
job. Um, I have to say my last question,
I heard through the grapevine, and I'm
not sure how true this is, that the
undertone set was a little bit haunted.
Is there any truth to that?
>> Yeah, definitely. There was uh there
were things that I wrote in the script
that were happening uh pretty
consistently every other day. It started
off with the flickering lights. So the
it was it wasn't just one light. It was
multiple lights in the house uh
flickering at different times and uh it
was almost like the house was uh a
prankster and uh doing doing the flicker
uh you know right before our gaffer was
going to switch the light bulb and then
to a light bulb that flickers. And then
there's things that happen in the in the
movie like
hearing whispering. Uh that's not there.
And then you know crew crew would have
crew have had you know they said that
they heard whispering and there was uh I
heard I heard someone call my name is
Natalia our our makeup artist. I was
kind of just walking by and then I heard
Ian and then I said yeah. And then she
looked up and she said what? and and it
was like a and I said nothing. And then
that was a weird moment. But then on
another day, I came I walked through the
front door. Uh and then she was she
said, "When did you get here?" And I
said, "I just got here." And she said,
"I heard you calling me upstairs and and
I had yelled coming." Right. So stuff
like that. There was a there's in the
audio in the audio recordings, Jessa
describes a nightmare that she had of a
waking up to a shadowy figure lying in
bed beside her. And uh Michelle Duket,
who plays Mama, had uh had
described a nightmare she had the night
before, but she didn't she didn't uh
know about the this audio recording we
did of of uh Kiana uh describing the
nightmare that I had written for her.
And it was the same nightmare. So, it
was a there was multiple things, but
they weren't, you know, they weren't
violent.
It was just
I I perceived them as playful
and uh I think everyone else started to
to feel like they were kind of
light-hearted
uh tricks from a you know, from a kid or
from just a you know,
Casper the friendly ghost. Something
like that.
>> That totally makes sense, too. Like, you
know, just some board spirit in the
house probably playing along. It's
probably so exciting. If you're a ghost,
you know, getting a movie made in your
house. So, I love that.
>> I personally think they were just trying
to help us make the movie.
>> Oh, that's a good point, too. Yeah, I
can see that. Ian, thank you so much for
your time. I appreciate you so very
much. It was such an incredible film.
Um, not to be dramatic, but it is my
movie of the year already. So, it is
such a pleasure to talk to you. I can't
wait to see the movie again, and it is
in theaters on March 13th. And everyone
needs to see it in theaters, obviously.
>> Yep. Friday the 13th.
>> Thank you all so very much for watching.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to A24
for the opportunity. This is not a
sponsored video. I probably should have
said that in the beginning, but I'm not
sponsored. I just really love horror
films, and I hope that I can find
another project like this. I I might
have something else that I can look into
in the near future, but for now, thank
you all so much for watching. If you did
enjoy it, go and give me a thumbs up.
Please subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already. A special thank you to
my subscribers who are members of the
channel. If you want to join the channel
memberships and get extra members
exclusive perks like members only
videos, you can click that little join
button somewhere around the screen. We
would love to have you. And extra
special thank you to my VIP loves for
their continued and generous support of
the channel. I love and appreciate you
all very, very much. I love you all very
much and I will see you in my next
video. I really hope you enjoyed. Bye.